# Customer/people data generator

Real human personal data is protected by legislation almost everywhere around the world. 
That is why it is so useful to be able to generate fake human data for test/dev purposes. 
Here is a brief description of customers' data features and rationale behind generator logic:

### Gender 
is generated first because a first name depends on it. Gender is generated as an output of 
binomial distribution function that can be biased with a male coefficient (mcof) that represents 
male spices share in the population (assumed 0.53)
### First and Last names 
are picked up from datasets based on US 1990 Census data (available here). Sampling 
function (sample{base}) is using probability (popularity) provided in the dataset when sampling 
random names.
### Date of birth (DOB) 
is generated as follows: 
1)age_stats table (built-in the code) represents age cohorts and their share in the population. 
2)sampe{base} function samples out an age cohort. 
3)age is generated by sampling it within a cohort assuming uniform distribution. 
4)DOB is generated as a current date minus age minus a random (uniform) number of days 
between 0 and 365.
### Phone
is a character string starting with "+1" and containing 9 random digits.
### Email: 
there are 2 types of email formats that we generate, choosing randomly (uniform) between them: 
name.surname@provider.com and  FirstletterofnameSurnameDOByear@provider.com. Email providers 
are sampled according to their probability (popularity) from table email_stats that is built-in 
the code.
### Address: ZIP, city, state 
are sampled out of from simplemaps dataset  https://simplemaps.com/data/us-zips according to 
the population numbers.

## Email duplicates
Since there are popular names, surnames and email providers there is a high chance of email 
duplicates: you may easily get 2 or more elizabeth.smith@gmail.com in 10k population. Because 
email is a good candidate to be a unique key in the database there is a code block at the end 
that checks for duplicate emails, all found duplicates get month and day of birth to the end 
of email alias and email provider is randomized once again. This strong measure makes 
the probability of duplicates ridiculously small.
